# 1) What this Project Does?
Answer: This Project allows user to upload documents and either:
i) Generate Summary
ii) Provide Query Based on Contents of Document
iii) Provide Query within specific Page Numbers

Page Number Based Query helps user find/summarize documents within specific Page Number that FAISS retrieval is not efficient at.
Document Aware Chunking was performed. 
Retrieval for Query was done by FAISS embedding.
Retrieval for Summary was done based on a scoring system that aims to retrieve relevant chunks.
Retrieval for Page Number specific Query was done by using Page Number metadata for retrieval of relevant chunks. 


# 2) Architecture:

Step 1: User Uploads file through Front End
Step 2: Uploaded File is sent to Chunking.
Step 3: Image to text conversion is done by OCR
Step 4: Heading were detected by Scoring System. The Scoring System consists of various conditions like Detecting Bold Text, Large Font Size, ALL CAPS HEADING as well as negative scoring for senteces with Full Stop, Equals to Mark, One letter Sentences, Large Texts, etc.
Step 5: Metadata was stored as: Heading, Section-ID(ID Number Based on Heading), Chunk-ID and Page Number.
Step 6: Document was made with each Chunk of Size 700 and overlap of 70.
Step 7: User Input for Task was waited.
Step 8: If User Clicked Generate Summary:
                - A limit of 25 Chunks max was set to preserve token and prevent RPM crashes
                - Chunks retrieval was done by scoring system
                - Chunks with beginning and ending Page Numbers were given higher Score.
                - Chunks with specific Heading like "Introduction", "Conclusion", etc were given Higher Score.
                - Chunks wiith heading such as "Table of Content", "Reference", etc were ignored.
                - Dense Chunks(with around 700 character filled) were given high Score.
                - 2 Large Chunks per Section was chosen for maximum coverage. This resets ever pass to fill up all 25 Chunks.
Step 9: If user gave Query:
                - FAISS embedding for both Document and Query is done.
                - At first a Limit of 5 Chunks is given.
                - Best Score among 5 Chunks is determined.
                - Each Chunk is compared against Best Score.
                - If Chunk manages a relevancy of 85% compared to Best Score it is selected.
                - If Chunk cannot manage a relevancy of 85% then all Chunks of the section original Chunk belonged to is selected.
                - If the section has less than 8 Chunks then all Chunks from that section is selected as well.
                - If the section has more than 8 Chunks then 2 Neighbouring Chunks are selected.
                - This usually gives a dynamic Chunk retrieval based on scores.
Step 10: If user gave Query Based on Page Number:
                - Chunks of Page Number(or Page Range) of user choice is only selected.
                - If Page has less than 15 Chunks then all Chunks are sent to LLM.
                - If Page has more than 15 Chunks then most dense Chunks alongside neighboring Chunks are selected.
Step 11: All retrieved Chunks are sent to LLM for Processing Based on Prompt.
Step 12: The response is given back to User.

# 3) Testing
Refer to Scores.md and Results.md

# 4) Limitations:
- LLM gets "confused" if mathematical equation dense Chunks are provided. This can be fixed by better Prompting and Improve Chunking.
- If any to User Query is only in one specific page of large document then sometimes retrieval of that Page Chunk may not be done properly.
- Scores are relatively low for retrieval with average of 0.6-0.75.
- Queries regarding Images has been mixed. Some responses are perfect whereas some Images are not properly converted to text.
- Starting the Backend takes more time than Frontend. Attempting to Upload File before Backend is loaded gives error(can be easily fixed by a quick refresh after backend loads)

# 5) Where was AI(CHATGPT) majorly used to assist with Project?
- Most Regex equations were generated by AI.
- Setup of Pytesseract and Docker files.
- Best scoring parameters for Heading and Chunk Selection was assisted by AI(but not entirely)
- Helped familiarize coding with various libraries not used before.

